doc develop bsim: Update documentation (#115300)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/develop/test/bsim.rst

=========================

When there is radio activity, BabbleSim tests require at the very least a physical layer simulation
running, and most, more than 1 simulated device. Due to this, these tests are executed by running
a dedicated script for each test which starts both the needed simulated devices, and the physical
layer executable with their required parameters, and any other tool which may be required.

To be able to run them with twister, the :ref:`bsim harness <twister_bsim_harness>` should be used.

> These tests are kept in the :code:`tests/bsim/` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tests are kept in the :zephyr_file:`tests/bsim/` folder.
```

Author: do we really benefit from a GH link here?

Author: Anyhow, added the link :)

Building and running the tests
******************************

Check the :ref:`nrf52_bsim <nrf52bsim_build_and_run>` page for instructions on how to set up the
simulator.

You can build and run these tests with :ref:`twister <twister_script>`.
To run multidevice tests, you will need to pass twister the option ``--fixture bsim_multi_test``.

For example, from ${ZEPHYR_BASE}, you can build and run one of the BT tests with:

.. code-block:: bash

   twister -p nrf52_bsim/native -T tests/bsim/bluetooth/host/adv/chain/ --fixture bsim_multi_test

If the test binaries have already been built, you can also run a test directly using its individual
test script. For example:

.. code-block:: bash

   BOARD=nrf52_bsim/native tests/bsim/bluetooth/host/adv/chain/tests_scripts/adv_chain.sh

:ref:`Twister command line options <twister_commandline_options>` like ``-n, --no-clean``,
``--aggressive-no-clean``, or, ``b, --build-only`` are likely to be useful when debugging or

> fixing issues.

Author: changed accordingly

Legacy batch scripts
====================

Until the twister bsim harness was added, building and running multidevice bsim tests relied

> on two scripts in the :code:`tests/bsim/` folder: ``compile.sh`` and ``run_parallel.sh``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on two scripts in the :zephyr_file:`tests/bsim/` folder: ``compile.sh`` and ``run_parallel.sh``.
```

Reviewer: Consider using `zephyr_file` for `compile.sh` and `run_parallel.sh` as well

Author: For compile.sh and run_parallel.sh I cannot without adding the whole path. But I don't think it is worth it. I mean, the readability of having the whole path vs the benefit for something who may want to look at the script content (having a link to GH vs juts opening the file locally in their editor)

Here are the conventions:

- Each test is defined by a shell script with the extension ``.sh``, in a subfolder called

>   ``tests_scripts/``.

Author: the bsim harness defaults to `tests_scripts/`. This change was purposeful to align with that.

>   ``tests_scripts/``.

Reviewer: We have a lot of file in both `test_scripts` and in `tests_scripts`. Which one is the correct one? :D

>   ``tests_scripts/``.

Author: well.., now the preferred would be tests_scripts. (Before either was just fine)
